# PIC16BFinalProject (Analysis of Factors that Contribute to Housing Prices)
Eric and Fox's PIC 16B Final Project Repository

# What Project About:
The project is trying to address the growing concern among Generation Z and Millennials regarding the increasing difficulty of homeownership due to rising housing prices and rental costs. This analysis aims to identify and quantify the various factors that influence housing prices and rent. As students looking to work in the data science field this project allows us to practice our abilities in pattern recognition and data management for a topic which concerns us and our colleagues. I, Eric, am a math/economics major so a topic such as the housing market and the variables which can make the market fluctuate has a direct tie into my studies in business and mathematical modeling. I, Fox, am a financial actuarial math major so the analysis of contributing factors to an economic trend will be part of my daily work life in the future. One of our personal greatest fears is being able to secure a comfortable and proper living after college. Housing is crucial for that lifestyle and understanding the general trends that affect housing prices/rental costs will give us an advantage in decision making when we enter the housing market.

# What we did:
The goal is to create a multiple linear regression model that can reasonably predict housing and rent prices, so that consumers can understand the trends in housing right now. With this new found knowledge, they can make more informed financial decisions. We started by creating analyzing our data and then run algorithms for feature selection. We then constructed MLRs with these features as well as an MLR with all potential factors in our data. Using a combination of partial F-tests and ANOVAs, we determined the best MLR model. We checked our model assumptions and evaluated on the testing data before drawing conclusions. Our MLRs were then compared to some simple neural networks.

# Results:
Our MLR model w/ outliers that had been transformed via the Box-Cox method ended up being the best. It had an adjusted R^2 value of 0.749 and the smallest MAPE (error) value at 30.03%. It also satisfied the diagnostic plots for the MLR model assumptions the best. 

For our simple NN models we did an FNN one and an LTSM one. They both had small MAPE (error) values around 13-14%. The time it took for these models to run were maybe about 20 seconds each for 100 epochs because of how simple they were designed. This indicates that something most likely went wrong with our feature selection for our MLRs or the assumptions were not satisfied enough for accurate results. It could also indicate that the sales price has a more non-linear relationship and an MLR is not appropiate.

Overall though, it seems that an MLR is relatively accurate in predicting the sales price of a house given the various features. About 74.9% of the variation in sales price could be explained by our model and our model would only be wrong about 30% of the time.
